Import guide updates (#48)
neo4j-graph-examples/get-started: documentation/import-from-rdbms.workspace.adoc

= Import from Relational Database
[role=NX_TAB_NAV,tab=import]

== Introduction

The import service now offers a way to import directly from data sources such as relational databases. 
If your data is already in reasonable shape for use in a graph database, it is possible to connect directly to your source and configure an import job.

This guide will take you through a three-stage process:

. Configuring a data source
. Reviewing a generated graph model and mapping to the data source
. Running the import job

=== Connectivity requirements

> - Your database should be one of the supported types, including Postgres, MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your database should be one of the supported types, including Postgres, MySQL, SQL Server, and Oracle.
```

> - It should be accessible via a public IP address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It should be accessible via a public IP address.
```

> - You should have username / password authentication setup. We recommend using a read-only user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You should have username/password authentication setup. Using a read-only user is recommended.
```

=== Limitations

The following are not yet supported:

> - Advanced configuration options such as custom certificates for data sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Advanced configuration options such as custom certificates for data sources.
```

> - Imports from data sources in a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) into a Neo4j managed VPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Imports from data sources in a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) into a Neo4j managed VPC.
```

image::import-source-config-form.png[]

[TIP]
====
Currently, error reporting is limited, so you should validate that all your details are correct by successfully connecting from your development machine. 
Also, note that your database needs to be publicly accessible to connect to it from Neo4j Aura.
====

Once the connection is successful, you are prompted to review and confirm the table schema for the database you've selected to connect to. 
Here you can see a summary of the tables and columns in your database to help validate that you're connected to the right data source. 
If everything looks good, hit `Confirm`. 
This adds your data source and saves it for future re-use.

image::import-source-table-schema.png[]

[TIP]
====
While your connection details are retained, your password is not. 
You need to re-provide the password for your data source when you use it again or trigger the import job.
====

Once you've added a data source, you can either start generating a candidate graph from it, or hit `Later` to come back and do this later. 
If you come back later, use the [...] button on a row and the `New graph model from data source` option to start the graph generation flow. 

> In this guide, let's move immediately onto the next stage of generating a graph model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step in this guide is generating a graph model.
```

=====

=== Refining a model

Even in this example where a well-connected graph model has been generated, the model can benefit from some tidy-up. 
For example, tables mapped to nodes use the corresponding table name as the label, but this can be made more suitable for your graph. 
The same applies to relationships that by default use a concatenation of related table names. 
Relationship direction may also benefit from being reversed for the chosen semantics. 
See the example below where the concepts of Person, Order, and Employee and their corresponding relationships are tidied up.

image::import-iterate-graph-model.gif[]

In the Data source panel on the left-hand side, blue icons denote that the column from a particular table has been mapped to the graph model. 
Reviewing the list of tables to any that have not been mapped can be useful.

image::import-tables-mapped.png[]

If the data is in the right shape, it can be mapped manually to the graph model. 
You can learn more about how nodes and relationships are mapped in the _Import from CSV_ guide that covers the same concepts required here.

>  It explains node IDs and relationship mappings in more detail with CSV files instead of tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It explains node IDs and relationship mappings in more detail with CSV files instead of tables.
```
